docs/RAILWAY_DEPLOYMENT.md, before:

# Railway Deployment Guide

## Overview

This guide covers the **NEW SIMPLIFIED** Bitcoin Newsletter deployment using Railway's cloud infrastructure for background processing while maintaining local development flexibility.

## 🚀 Current Deployment: "proactive-alignment"

### ✅ Railway Project Status
- **Project Name**: `proactive-alignment`
- **Project ID**: `6115f406-107e-45c3-85d4-d720c3638053`
- **Deployment Type**: **Hybrid Local + Cloud Development**

### ✅ Active Services
- **Celery Worker**: ✅ Running and processing tasks
- **Celery Beat**: ✅ Running and scheduling tasks (every 4 hours)
- **Redis**: ✅ Running as message broker
- **Neon Database**: ✅ Connected and operational

### 🎯 Development Approach
- **Local Web Service**: FastAPI runs locally with hot reload
- **Cloud Task Processing**: Worker and Beat run on Railway
- **Shared Database**: Neon PostgreSQL accessible from both environments
- **Simplified Workflow**: No complex multi-service management

## Prerequisites

### 1. Railway CLI Installation
```bash
# Install Railway CLI
curl -fsSL https://railway.com/install.sh | sh
# OR
npm i -g @railway/cli

# Authenticate
railway login

# Link to project
railway link -p 6115f406-107e-45c3-85d4-d720c3638053
```

### 2. Project Files
- ✅ `main.py`: Celery entry point for Railway compatibility
- ✅ `scripts/dev-railway.sh`: Local development script
- ✅ `scripts/test-railway-tasks.sh`: Task testing script

## Deployment Architecture

### Hybrid Development Model
```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    LOCAL DEVELOPMENT                            │
│  ┌─────────────────┐                                           │
│  │   Web Service   │  ← You develop here with hot reload       │
│  │   (FastAPI)     │                                           │
│  │ localhost:8000  │                                           │
│  └─────────────────┘                                           │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
           │
           │ Uses Railway environment variables
           │
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                  RAILWAY CLOUD INFRASTRUCTURE                   │
│  ┌─────────────────┐  ┌─────────────────┐  ┌─────────────────┐ │
│  │ Celery Worker   │  │  Celery Beat    │  │     Redis       │ │
│  │   (Tasks)       │  │ (Scheduler)     │  │   (Broker)      │ │
│  │                 │  │                 │  │                 │ │
│  └─────────────────┘  └─────────────────┘  └─────────────────┘ │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
           │
           │ Shared database connection
           │
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    EXTERNAL SERVICES                            │
│  ┌─────────────────┐                    ┌─────────────────┐     │
│  │   Neon DB       │                    │  CoinDesk API   │     │
│  │ (PostgreSQL)    │                    │                 │     │
│  └─────────────────┘                    └─────────────────┘     │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

### Service Configuration

#### 1. Local Web Service (FastAPI)
- **Location**: Your local machine
- **Purpose**: HTTP API development with hot reload
- **Port**: 8000 (localhost)
- **Health Check**: `http://localhost:8000/health`
- **Start Command**: `railway run uvicorn crypto_newsletter.web.main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000 --reload`
- **Environment**: Uses Railway environment variables via `railway run`

#### 2. Railway Worker Service ✅ DEPLOYED
- **Location**: Railway cloud
- **Purpose**: Background task processing
- **Queues**: default, ingestion, monitoring, maintenance
- **Concurrency**: 1 (optimized for Railway)
- **Start Command**: `celery -A main.app worker --concurrency=1 -l INFO`
- **Status**: ✅ Running and processing tasks

#### 3. Railway Beat Service ✅ DEPLOYED
- **Location**: Railway cloud
- **Purpose**: Periodic task scheduling
- **Schedule**: Article ingestion every 4 hours, health checks every 5 minutes
- **Start Command**: `celery -A main.app beat -l INFO`
- **Status**: ✅ Running and scheduling tasks

#### 4. Railway Redis Service ✅ DEPLOYED
- **Location**: Railway cloud
- **Purpose**: Message broker and result backend
- **Status**: ✅ Running and connected
- **Connection**: Available via Railway environment variables

## Environment Variables

### Railway Project Variables (Shared)
```bash
# Database connection
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://neondb_owner:npg_prKBLEUJ1f8P@ep-purple-firefly-ab009z0a-pooler.eu-west-2.aws.neon.tech/neondb?channel_binding=require&sslmode=require

# API Keys
COINDESK_API_KEY=346bed562339e612d8c119b80e25f162386d81bdbe323f381a85eab2f0cb74fb

# Python Configuration
PYTHONPATH=/app/src
UV_SYSTEM_PYTHON=1
PYTHONFAULTHANDLER=1
PYTHONUNBUFFERED=1
PYTHONDONTWRITEBYTECODE=1

# Redis URL (automatically provided by Railway Redis service)
REDIS_URL=${{Redis.REDIS_URL}}
```

### Local Development
When you run `railway run`, these variables are automatically available to your local development environment.

## Development Workflow

### Daily Development Process

#### 1. Start Local Development
```bash
# Start local web service with Railway infrastructure
./scripts/dev-railway.sh
```

This script will:
- ✅ Check Railway CLI installation
- ✅ Verify project linking
- ✅ Start local web service at `http://localhost:8000`
- ✅ Use Railway's environment variables
- ✅ Connect to Railway's Redis, Worker, and Beat services

#### 2. Test Task Execution
```bash
# Test tasks using Railway infrastructure
./scripts/test-railway-tasks.sh
```

This script will:
- ✅ Check Celery app configuration
- ✅ Test database connection
- ✅ Execute health check tasks
- ✅ Optionally test article ingestion

#### 3. Monitor Task Processing
- **Railway Logs**: Check worker and beat service logs in Railway dashboard
- **Local Logs**: Monitor web service logs in your terminal
- **Database**: Verify data storage in Neon database

### Setup Instructions

#### First-Time Setup
```bash
# 1. Install Railway CLI
curl -fsSL https://railway.com/install.sh | sh

# 2. Authenticate with Railway
railway login

# 3. Link to the project
railway link -p 6115f406-107e-45c3-85d4-d720c3638053

# 4. Test the connection
railway status

# 5. Start development
./scripts/dev-railway.sh
```

## Health Monitoring

### Railway Health Checks
- **Path**: `/health`
- **Timeout**: 100 seconds
- **Interval**: 30 seconds
- **Retries**: 3

### Available Health Endpoints
- `/health/` - Basic health for load balancers
- `/health/ready` - Readiness probe with database check
- `/health/live` - Liveness probe for containers
- `/health/detailed` - Comprehensive system health
- `/health/metrics` - System metrics and statistics

## Monitoring and Management

### API Endpoints
- **Admin Dashboard**: `/admin/status`
- **Task Management**: `/admin/tasks/*`
- **Public API**: `/api/articles`, `/api/stats`
- **Documentation**: `/docs` (development only)

### CLI Management
```bash
# Check deployment status
railway status

# View logs
railway logs --service web
railway logs --service worker
railway logs --service beat

# Connect to services
railway shell --service web
```

## Deployment Issues Resolved

### Critical Issues Fixed During Deployment

#### 1. Redis Import Error ✅ FIXED
**Issue**: `AttributeError: 'NoneType' object has no attribute 'Redis'` in Kombu transport
**Root Cause**: Import order issue where Redis module wasn't available when Kombu tried to use it
**Solution**: Added explicit Redis import before Celery/Kombu imports in `src/crypto_newsletter/shared/celery/app.py`
```python
# IMPORTANT: Import redis before any other imports
try:
    import redis
    redis.Redis  # Force redis module to be fully loaded
except ImportError as e:
    print(f"Failed to import redis: {e}")
    raise
```

#### 2. mmap Module Missing ✅ FIXED
**Issue**: `ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'mmap'` when starting Celery worker
**Root Cause**: Railway containers missing mmap support for multiprocessing
**Solution**: Changed Celery worker pool from `prefork` to `solo` in Celery configuration
```python
worker_pool="solo",  # Changed from prefork to avoid mmap dependency
worker_concurrency=1,  # Solo pool only supports concurrency=1
```

#### 3. Redis Version Compatibility ✅ FIXED
**Issue**: Version conflicts between Celery, Kombu, and Redis libraries
**Root Cause**: Kombu incompatibility with certain Redis versions (5.0.2, 4.5.5)
**Solution**: Updated Redis constraint in `pyproject.toml`
```toml
"redis>=4.5.2,!=5.0.2,!=4.5.5,<5.0.0",
```

#### 4. idna Encoding Error ✅ FIXED
**Issue**: `LookupError: unknown encoding: idna` when connecting to Redis
**Root Cause**: Railway containers may have incomplete Python encoding support
**Solution**: Added comprehensive idna encoding registration
```python
# Fix idna encoding issue in Railway containers
try:
    import encodings.idna
    import codecs
    codecs.lookup('idna')  # Ensure idna encoding is registered
except (ImportError, LookupError) as e:
    # Fallback registration logic
```

### Dependencies Added for Railway Compatibility
```toml
"idna>=3.4",  # Fix for LookupError: unknown encoding: idna
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### 1. Service Won't Start
- Check logs: `railway logs --service [service-name]`
- Verify environment variables are set
- Ensure database migrations completed

#### 2. Database Connection Issues
- Verify `DATABASE_URL` is correctly set
- Check Neon database is accessible
- Run health check: `GET /health/ready`

#### 3. Celery Tasks Not Processing
- Check worker service logs
- Verify Redis connection: `REDIS_URL`
- Check beat scheduler is running
- Monitor tasks: `GET /admin/tasks/active`

#### 4. Health Check Failures
- Check `/health/detailed` for specific component issues
- Verify all environment variables are set
- Check service startup logs

## Current Deployment Status

### ✅ Successfully Deployed
- ✅ **Web Service**: Running and healthy (FastAPI)
- ✅ **Celery Worker**: Running and processing tasks (45+ minutes stable)
- ✅ **Redis Service**: Connected and operational
- ✅ **Neon Database**: Connected and operational
- ✅ **Health Monitoring**: All endpoints responding
- ✅ **Environment Variables**: Configured and working
- ✅ **Critical Issues**: All deployment blockers resolved

### ⏳ Next Steps Required
1. **Test Task Execution**: Verify articles are stored in Neon database
2. **Deploy Celery Beat**: Add scheduled task service
3. **Clean Up Debug Code**: Remove temporary fixes
4. **Performance Monitoring**: Monitor system over 24 hours

### 🎯 System Ready For
- Article ingestion via API
- Background task processing
- Health monitoring and alerts
- Production workloads

The core system is **production-ready** with all critical services operational!

Commit message:

Update documentation to reflect successful Render deployment
- Updated PROJECT_OVERVIEW.md with Render deployment status
- Updated DEPLOYMENT.md with production service URLs
- Updated README.md with live API endpoints
- Created RENDER_DEPLOYMENT_SUCCESS.md with comprehensive deployment summary
- Updated HANDOVER_NEXT_STEPS.md with production system access
- Marked Railway-specific docs as deprecated with migration notices
- All docs now reflect 4 operational Render services and 29+ articles

docs/RAILWAY_DEPLOYMENT.md, after:

# ⚠️ DEPRECATED - Railway Deployment Guide

## 🔄 Migration Notice

**This document is deprecated.** The Bitcoin Newsletter has been successfully migrated from Railway to Render.

**👉 See current deployment status: [Render Deployment Success](RENDER_DEPLOYMENT_SUCCESS.md)**

---

## Historical Railway Deployment (Deprecated)

This guide was used for Railway deployment but has been superseded by our successful Render deployment.

## 🚀 Current Deployment: "proactive-alignment"

### ✅ Railway Project Status
- **Project Name**: `proactive-alignment`
- **Project ID**: `6115f406-107e-45c3-85d4-d720c3638053`
- **Deployment Type**: **Hybrid Local + Cloud Development**

### ✅ Active Services
- **Celery Worker**: ✅ Running and processing tasks
- **Celery Beat**: ✅ Running and scheduling tasks (every 4 hours)
- **Redis**: ✅ Running as message broker
- **Neon Database**: ✅ Connected and operational

### 🎯 Development Approach
- **Local Web Service**: FastAPI runs locally with hot reload
- **Cloud Task Processing**: Worker and Beat run on Railway
- **Shared Database**: Neon PostgreSQL accessible from both environments
- **Simplified Workflow**: No complex multi-service management

## Prerequisites

### 1. Railway CLI Installation
```bash
# Install Railway CLI
curl -fsSL https://railway.com/install.sh | sh
# OR
npm i -g @railway/cli

# Authenticate
railway login

# Link to project
railway link -p 6115f406-107e-45c3-85d4-d720c3638053
```

### 2. Project Files
- ✅ `main.py`: Celery entry point for Railway compatibility
- ✅ `scripts/dev-railway.sh`: Local development script
- ✅ `scripts/test-railway-tasks.sh`: Task testing script

## Deployment Architecture

### Hybrid Development Model
```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    LOCAL DEVELOPMENT                            │
│  ┌─────────────────┐                                           │
│  │   Web Service   │  ← You develop here with hot reload       │
│  │   (FastAPI)     │                                           │
│  │ localhost:8000  │                                           │
│  └─────────────────┘                                           │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
           │
           │ Uses Railway environment variables
           │
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                  RAILWAY CLOUD INFRASTRUCTURE                   │
│  ┌─────────────────┐  ┌─────────────────┐  ┌─────────────────┐ │
│  │ Celery Worker   │  │  Celery Beat    │  │     Redis       │ │
│  │   (Tasks)       │  │ (Scheduler)     │  │   (Broker)      │ │
│  │                 │  │                 │  │                 │ │
│  └─────────────────┘  └─────────────────┘  └─────────────────┘ │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
           │
           │ Shared database connection
           │
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    EXTERNAL SERVICES                            │
│  ┌─────────────────┐                    ┌─────────────────┐     │
│  │   Neon DB       │                    │  CoinDesk API   │     │
│  │ (PostgreSQL)    │                    │                 │     │
│  └─────────────────┘                    └─────────────────┘     │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

### Service Configuration

#### 1. Local Web Service (FastAPI)
- **Location**: Your local machine
- **Purpose**: HTTP API development with hot reload
- **Port**: 8000 (localhost)
- **Health Check**: `http://localhost:8000/health`
- **Start Command**: `railway run uvicorn crypto_newsletter.web.main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000 --reload`
- **Environment**: Uses Railway environment variables via `railway run`

#### 2. Railway Worker Service ✅ DEPLOYED
- **Location**: Railway cloud
- **Purpose**: Background task processing
- **Queues**: default, ingestion, monitoring, maintenance
- **Concurrency**: 1 (optimized for Railway)
- **Start Command**: `celery -A main.app worker --concurrency=1 -l INFO`
- **Status**: ✅ Running and processing tasks

#### 3. Railway Beat Service ✅ DEPLOYED
- **Location**: Railway cloud
- **Purpose**: Periodic task scheduling
- **Schedule**: Article ingestion every 4 hours, health checks every 5 minutes
- **Start Command**: `celery -A main.app beat -l INFO`
- **Status**: ✅ Running and scheduling tasks

#### 4. Railway Redis Service ✅ DEPLOYED
- **Location**: Railway cloud
- **Purpose**: Message broker and result backend
- **Status**: ✅ Running and connected
- **Connection**: Available via Railway environment variables

## Environment Variables

### Railway Project Variables (Shared)
```bash
# Database connection
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://neondb_owner:npg_prKBLEUJ1f8P@ep-purple-firefly-ab009z0a-pooler.eu-west-2.aws.neon.tech/neondb?channel_binding=require&sslmode=require

# API Keys
COINDESK_API_KEY=346bed562339e612d8c119b80e25f162386d81bdbe323f381a85eab2f0cb74fb

# Python Configuration
PYTHONPATH=/app/src
UV_SYSTEM_PYTHON=1
PYTHONFAULTHANDLER=1
PYTHONUNBUFFERED=1
PYTHONDONTWRITEBYTECODE=1

# Redis URL (automatically provided by Railway Redis service)
REDIS_URL=${{Redis.REDIS_URL}}
```

### Local Development
When you run `railway run`, these variables are automatically available to your local development environment.

## Development Workflow

### Daily Development Process

#### 1. Start Local Development
```bash
# Start local web service with Railway infrastructure
./scripts/dev-railway.sh
```

This script will:
- ✅ Check Railway CLI installation
- ✅ Verify project linking
- ✅ Start local web service at `http://localhost:8000`
- ✅ Use Railway's environment variables
- ✅ Connect to Railway's Redis, Worker, and Beat services

#### 2. Test Task Execution
```bash
# Test tasks using Railway infrastructure
./scripts/test-railway-tasks.sh
```

This script will:
- ✅ Check Celery app configuration
- ✅ Test database connection
- ✅ Execute health check tasks
- ✅ Optionally test article ingestion

#### 3. Monitor Task Processing
- **Railway Logs**: Check worker and beat service logs in Railway dashboard
- **Local Logs**: Monitor web service logs in your terminal
- **Database**: Verify data storage in Neon database

### Setup Instructions

#### First-Time Setup
```bash
# 1. Install Railway CLI
curl -fsSL https://railway.com/install.sh | sh

# 2. Authenticate with Railway
railway login

# 3. Link to the project
railway link -p 6115f406-107e-45c3-85d4-d720c3638053

# 4. Test the connection
railway status

# 5. Start development
./scripts/dev-railway.sh
```

## Health Monitoring

### Railway Health Checks
- **Path**: `/health`
- **Timeout**: 100 seconds
- **Interval**: 30 seconds
- **Retries**: 3

### Available Health Endpoints
- `/health/` - Basic health for load balancers
- `/health/ready` - Readiness probe with database check
- `/health/live` - Liveness probe for containers
- `/health/detailed` - Comprehensive system health
- `/health/metrics` - System metrics and statistics

## Monitoring and Management

### API Endpoints
- **Admin Dashboard**: `/admin/status`
- **Task Management**: `/admin/tasks/*`
- **Public API**: `/api/articles`, `/api/stats`
- **Documentation**: `/docs` (development only)

### CLI Management
```bash
# Check deployment status
railway status

# View logs
railway logs --service web
railway logs --service worker
railway logs --service beat

# Connect to services
railway shell --service web
```

## Deployment Issues Resolved

### Critical Issues Fixed During Deployment

#### 1. Redis Import Error ✅ FIXED
**Issue**: `AttributeError: 'NoneType' object has no attribute 'Redis'` in Kombu transport
**Root Cause**: Import order issue where Redis module wasn't available when Kombu tried to use it
**Solution**: Added explicit Redis import before Celery/Kombu imports in `src/crypto_newsletter/shared/celery/app.py`
```python
# IMPORTANT: Import redis before any other imports
try:
    import redis
    redis.Redis  # Force redis module to be fully loaded
except ImportError as e:
    print(f"Failed to import redis: {e}")
    raise
```

#### 2. mmap Module Missing ✅ FIXED
**Issue**: `ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'mmap'` when starting Celery worker
**Root Cause**: Railway containers missing mmap support for multiprocessing
**Solution**: Changed Celery worker pool from `prefork` to `solo` in Celery configuration
```python
worker_pool="solo",  # Changed from prefork to avoid mmap dependency
worker_concurrency=1,  # Solo pool only supports concurrency=1
```

#### 3. Redis Version Compatibility ✅ FIXED
**Issue**: Version conflicts between Celery, Kombu, and Redis libraries
**Root Cause**: Kombu incompatibility with certain Redis versions (5.0.2, 4.5.5)
**Solution**: Updated Redis constraint in `pyproject.toml`
```toml
"redis>=4.5.2,!=5.0.2,!=4.5.5,<5.0.0",
```

#### 4. idna Encoding Error ✅ FIXED
**Issue**: `LookupError: unknown encoding: idna` when connecting to Redis
**Root Cause**: Railway containers may have incomplete Python encoding support
**Solution**: Added comprehensive idna encoding registration
```python
# Fix idna encoding issue in Railway containers
try:
    import encodings.idna
    import codecs
    codecs.lookup('idna')  # Ensure idna encoding is registered
except (ImportError, LookupError) as e:
    # Fallback registration logic
```

### Dependencies Added for Railway Compatibility
```toml
"idna>=3.4",  # Fix for LookupError: unknown encoding: idna
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### 1. Service Won't Start
- Check logs: `railway logs --service [service-name]`
- Verify environment variables are set
- Ensure database migrations completed

#### 2. Database Connection Issues
- Verify `DATABASE_URL` is correctly set
- Check Neon database is accessible
- Run health check: `GET /health/ready`

#### 3. Celery Tasks Not Processing
- Check worker service logs
- Verify Redis connection: `REDIS_URL`
- Check beat scheduler is running
- Monitor tasks: `GET /admin/tasks/active`

#### 4. Health Check Failures
- Check `/health/detailed` for specific component issues
- Verify all environment variables are set
- Check service startup logs

## Current Deployment Status

### ✅ Successfully Deployed
- ✅ **Web Service**: Running and healthy (FastAPI)
- ✅ **Celery Worker**: Running and processing tasks (45+ minutes stable)
- ✅ **Redis Service**: Connected and operational
- ✅ **Neon Database**: Connected and operational
- ✅ **Health Monitoring**: All endpoints responding
- ✅ **Environment Variables**: Configured and working
- ✅ **Critical Issues**: All deployment blockers resolved

### ⏳ Next Steps Required
1. **Test Task Execution**: Verify articles are stored in Neon database
2. **Deploy Celery Beat**: Add scheduled task service
3. **Clean Up Debug Code**: Remove temporary fixes
4. **Performance Monitoring**: Monitor system over 24 hours

### 🎯 System Ready For
- Article ingestion via API
- Background task processing
- Health monitoring and alerts
- Production workloads

The core system is **production-ready** with all critical services operational!
